feat: PayPal Alternative Payment Methods Integration (#2059)
intershop/intershop-pwa: docs/guides/paypal.md

Reviewer: please check the links, only the 1st link target was what I expected, the last link didn`'t work at all, the other 2 links lead to very common pages not what I expected or you have to change the link description names

Author: done

Reviewer: pls adapt to the new control flow syntax - this is the backdraw to have code examples in the docu ;-)

Author: done

Reviewer: use attribute binding for static values

Author: done

Reviewer 2: Card Fields or CardFields as the adapter type name above?

Reviewer 2: Is it still called PayPal Common Configuration Service in ICM or has it been renamed meanwhile? If so, or if anything else has been renamed, the screenshot needs to be updated (as well). Else all fine. :-)

| `PaypalConfigService`     | Handles SDK script loading and URL construction                                                                                              |
| `PaypalCardFieldsAdapter` | Representation of the PayPal SDK Card Fields object, responsible for rendering PayPal card fields and handling the associated callbacks      |
| `PaypalButtonsAdapter`    | Representation of the PayPal SDK Buttons object, responsible for rendering PayPal buttons and handling the associated callbacks              |
| `PaypalMessagesAdapter`   | Representation of the PayPal SDK Messages object, responsible for rendering PayPal Pay Later messages                                        |
| `PaypalGooglePayAdapter`  | Representation of the PayPal SDK Google Pay object, responsible for rendering PayPal Google Pay button and handling the associated callbacks |
| `PaypalApplePayAdapter`   | Representation of the PayPal SDK Apple Pay object, responsible for rendering PayPal Apple Pay button and handling the associated callbacks   |

## Adapter Types

The [`ish-payment-paypal`][payment-paypal.component.ts] component supports different adapter types:

- Buttons
- Messages

> - CardFields

Reviewer 2: If these adapter types are all spelled without spaces, the headlines below should be spelled alike, right?

> ### Key Components

Reviewer: Key building blocks might be clearer

Author: done

> | Component                 | Location                                                 | Purpose                                                                                                                                      |

Reviewer: The location column is not necessary and can be deleted, every developer will find easily these classes in the source code

Author: done

| `PaypalCardFieldsAdapter` | `src/app/core/utils/paypal/adapters/paypal-card-fields/` | Representation of the PayPal SDK Card Fields object, responsible for rendering PayPal card fields and handling the associated callbacks      |
| `PaypalButtonsAdapter`    | `src/app/core/utils/paypal/adapters/paypal-buttons/`     | Representation of the PayPal SDK Buttons object, responsible for rendering PayPal buttons and handling the associated callbacks              |
| `PaypalMessagesAdapter`   | `src/app/core/utils/paypal/adapters/paypal-messages/`    | Representation of the PayPal SDK Messages object, responsible for rendering PayPal Pay Later messages                                        |
| `PaypalGooglePayAdapter`  | `src/app/core/utils/paypal/adapters/paypal-google-pay/`  | Representation of the PayPal SDK Google Pay object, responsible for rendering PayPal Google Pay button and handling the associated callbacks |
| `PaypalApplePayAdapter`   | `src/app/core/utils/paypal/adapters/paypal-apple-pay/`   | Representation of the PayPal SDK Apple Pay object, responsible for rendering PayPal Apple Pay button and handling the associated callbacks   |

## Adapter Types

> The [`ish-payment-paypal`][payment-paypal.component.ts] component supports three different adapter types:

Reviewer: three is not longer true, please remove it: support different adapter types is sufficient

Author: done

- Buttons
- Messages
- CardFields

> - Googlepay

Reviewer: convert Googlepay and Applepay to camelcase to make it consistent to CardFields

Author: done

```html
<ish-payment-paypal [selectedPaymentMethod]="paymentMethod" adapterType="'CardFields'" pageType="'checkout'" />
```

### Google Pay

This adapter type is used to provide the Google Pay button and the corresponding functionality.
The rendering is performed by the [`PaypalGooglePayAdapter`][paypal-google-pay.adapter.ts].
This component also provides the callback methods that are required by the [`PayPal JavaScript SDK Google Pay API`](https://developer.paypal.com/docs/checkout/apm/google-pay).

#### Google Pay Payment Flow

When the user authorizes a payment in the Google Pay sheet, the `onPaymentAuthorizedCallback` method handles the following flow:

1. **ICM Order Creation**: Initiates order creation in Intershop Commerce Management.
2. **PayPal Order Confirmation**: Confirms the order with PayPal using the Google Pay payment data.
3. **3D Secure Handling**: If Strong Customer Authentication (SCA) is required (`PAYER_ACTION_REQUIRED`), the `initiatePayerAction()` method is called to display the 3DS authentication iframe.

> 4. **Order Completion**: Continues with ICM order creation regardless of the PayPal confirmation result, as the backend handles the final payment state.

Reviewer 2: I guess you mean ICM back office here. The term backend or back office should not be used beyond Enfinity Suite 6 according to our glossary. So I suggest:
```suggestion
4. **Order Completion**: Continues with ICM order creation regardless of the PayPal confirmation result, as the Commerce Management handles the final payment state.
```

>    googlePayEnvironment: 'TEST',
>  },
> ```

### ApplePay

This adapter type is used to provide the Apple Pay button and the corresponding functionality.
The rendering is performed by the [`PaypalApplePayAdapter`][paypal-apple-pay.adapter.ts].
This component also provides the callback methods that are required by the [`PayPal JavaScript SDK Apple Pay API`](https://developer.paypal.com/docs/checkout/apm/apple-pay).

#### Apple Pay Payment Flow

When the user clicks the Apple Pay button, the `onApplePayButtonClicked` method initiates the following flow:

1. **ICM Order Creation**: Initiates order creation in Intershop Commerce Management asynchronously
2. **ApplePaySession Creation**: Creates the `ApplePaySession` synchronously from the user gesture (required by Apple Pay)
3. **Merchant Validation**: The `onvalidatemerchant` callback validates the merchant with PayPal using the validation URL.
4. **Payment Authorization**: The `onpaymentauthorized` callback confirms the order with PayPal using the Apple Pay token and billing contact data.
5. **Order Completion**: Continues with ICM order creation and completes the Apple Pay session with success or failure status

> 6. **Cancellation Handling**: If the user cancels the Apple Pay sheet, the `oncancel` callback triggers ICM order creation cleanup to remove the pending order.

Reviewer 2: Please check if the content of the changed wording is still fine. Thanks!

<ish-payment-paypal [selectedPaymentMethod]="paymentMethod" [adapterType]="'CardFields'" [pageType]="'checkout'" />
```

### Google Pay

> This adapter type is used to provide the google pay button and the corresponding functionality.

Reviewer: Google Pay and Apple Pay are brand names and should always written capitalized, also at other places in this document

Author: done

The rendering is performed by the [`PaypalGooglePayAdapter`][paypal-google-pay.adapter.ts].

> This component also provides the callback methods that are required by the PayPal JavaScript SDK Google Pay API.

Reviewer: can you add a link here for PayPal JavaScript SDK Google Pay API

Author: done

#### Google Pay Payment Flow

When the user authorizes a payment in the Google Pay sheet, the `onPaymentAuthorizedCallback` method handles the following flow:

1. **ICM Order Creation**: Initiates order creation in Intershop Commerce Management.
2. **PayPal Order Confirmation**: Confirms the order with PayPal using the Google Pay payment data.

> 3. **3D Secure Handling**: If Strong Customer Authentication is required (`PAYER_ACTION_REQUIRED`), the `initiatePayerAction()` method is called to display the 3DS authentication iframe.

Reviewer: can you add (SCA) behind Strong Customer Authentication so it is clear, an official term is used

Author: done

4. **Order Completion**: Continues with ICM order creation regardless of the PayPal confirmation result, as the backend handles the final payment state.

The following example shows how to integrate [`ish-payment-paypal`][payment-paypal.component.ts] for the corresponding adapter type `Googlepay` into any component:

```html

> <ish-payment-paypal [adapterType]="'Googlepay'" [pageType]="'checkout'" [selectedPaymentMethod]="paypalMethod" />

Reviewer: we use attribute binding for static values: <ish-payment-paypal adapterType="Googlepay" pageType="checkout" [selectedPaymentMethod]="paypalMethod" />

Author: done

```

#### Google Pay Production Checklist

Before going live with Google Pay, ensure the following requirements are met:

| Requirement                  | Description                                                                                                                           |
| ---------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| HTTPS                        | SSL certificate must be configured on your domain                                                                                     |
| PayPal Live Credentials      | Production Client ID and Merchant ID from PayPal                                                                                      |

> | Google Merchant ID           | Obtained from [Google Pay & Wallet Console](https://pay.google.com/business/console)                                                  |

Reviewer: these links require a login - pls clarify with docu team, if we should leave them or if we want to add a remark like we already did it for the Intershop Academy - a remark behind the link (free registration required) etc.

Author: done

| PayPal Production Onboarding | Complete [PayPal Production Onboarding](https://www.paypal.com/bizsignup/add-product?product=payment_methods&capabilities=GOOGLE_PAY) |
| Google Review                | Integration approved by Google                                                                                                        |
| Domain Verification          | Domain must be verified with Google                                                                                                   |
| ICM Backend                  | Backend must be configured with production credentials                                                                                |

> [!NOTE]

> > The `environment` parameter for the Google Pay `PaymentsClient` defaults to `'PRODUCTION'`.

Reviewer: In the environment.model the PaymentsClient is currently set to 'TEST' - I'd prefer to leave it per default to TEST and projects have to set it to PRODUCTION because I expect every project will start with using TEST value before they set the value to PRODUCTION - in this case only the docu has to be adapted

Author: I disagree. Before merging this branch, i will remove the default paypalClientConfig from the environment.model.ts. In case the default value is 'TEST', the customer has to adapt each production deployment. The test setting is only imported for an INT System. In my view, it’s a matter of preference. Either the deployment for the INT system or the deployment for the PROD system needs to be adjusted. From the customer’s perspective, I would prefer the simpler PROD deployment.

> > For testing purposes, this must be set to `'TEST'`.

Reviewer: In production mode, this must be set to 'PRODUCTION'

Author: see commend above

> You can configure this via the PWA environment parameter `paypalClientConfig.googlePayEnvironment`.
>
> Example for the specification of the paypalClientConfig configuration via `environment` file:
>
> ```ts
>  paypalClientConfig: {

> >    googlePayEnvironment: 'TEST',

Reviewer: change example

Author: see commend above

>  },
> ```

### Apple Pay

> This adapter type is used to provide the apple pay button and the corresponding functionality.

Reviewer: capitalize apple pay

Author: done

The rendering is performed by the [`PaypalApplePayAdapter`][paypal-apple-pay.adapter.ts].

> This component also provides the callback methods that are required by the PayPal JavaScript SDK Apple Pay API.

Reviewer: change this component to this adapter, add a link to the api doku

Author: done

#### Apple Pay Payment Flow

When the user clicks the Apple Pay button, the `onApplePayButtonClicked` method initiates the following flow:

1. **ICM Order Creation**: Initiates order creation in Intershop Commerce Management asynchronously.

> 2. **ApplePaySession Creation**: Creates the ApplePaySession synchronously from the user gesture (required by Apple Pay).

Reviewer: Use Hochkommas :-) to make it clear ApplePaySession and ApplePaySession are class names

Author: done

> 3. **Merchant Validation**: The `onValidateMerchant` callback validates the merchant with PayPal using the validation URL.

Reviewer: in the code onvalidatemerchant is completely lowercase - pls keep it consistent (e.g. with oncancel) if you refer to the implementation you should keep the spelling

Author: done

4. **Payment Authorization**: The `onPaymentAuthorized` callback confirms the order with PayPal using the Apple Pay token and billing contact data.
5. **Order Completion**: Continues with ICM order creation and completes the Apple Pay session with success or failure status.
6. **Cancellation Handling**: If the user cancels the Apple Pay sheet, the `oncancel` callback continues ICM order creation to clean up the pending order.

> The following example shows how to integrate [`ish-payment-paypal`][payment-paypal.component.ts] for the corresponding adapter type `Applepay` into any component:

Reviewer: ApplePay

Author: done

```html

> <ish-payment-paypal [adapterType]="'Applepay'" [pageType]="'checkout'" [selectedPaymentMethod]="paypalMethod" />

Reviewer: we use attribute binding for static values see 167

Author: done

```

> #### Well-Known Resources

Reviewer: Change this headline to 'Domain Verification'

Author: done

Apple Pay requires domain verification to ensure that only authorized domains can process Apple Pay transactions.

> This is accomplished by serving an Apple domain association file at the `/.well-known/apple-developer-merchantid-domain-association` path.

Reviewer: Maybe an additional short explanation about well-known would be helpful here like:
The `/.well-known/` directory is a standardized location on web servers (defined by [RFC 8615](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc8615)) used to host site-wide metadata files.

Author: done
